## StorageClass

[StorageClass Docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/)


- StorageClass is an API resource that allows storage to be automatically provisioned. Is the type of storage that the cluser provides.

- Multiple StorageClass resources can co-exist in the same cluster to provide access to different types of storage.
- For automatic working, one StorageClass must be set as default.
```bash
kubectl patch storageclass mysc -p '{"metadata": {"annotations":{"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class":"true"}}}'
```
### Using StorageClass

To enable automatic provisioning, StorageClass needs a backing storage provisioner.
In the PV and PVC definition, a storageClass property can be set to connect to a specific StorageClass which is useful if multiple StorageClass resources are available.
If the storageClass property is not set, the PVC will get storage from the default StorageClass.
If also no default StorageClass is set, the PVC will get stuck in a status of Pending

### Setting NFS Providerr

- The Storage Provisioner works with a StorageClass to automatically provide storage.
- It runs as a Pod in the kubernetes cluster, provided with access control configured through Roles, RoleBinding, and ServiceAccounts.
- Once operational, you don't have to manually create PersistentVolumes anymore

<b> Requirements: </b>
- To create a storage provisioner, grant access to the API.
- Roles and RoleBindings are created to provide these permissions.
- A ServiceAccount is created to connect the Pod the appropriate RoleBinding.
  
### Configure the Storage Provisioner


<b>On control-plane</b>:

```bash 
sudo apt install nfs-server -y
```
```bash
sudo mkdir /nfsexport
```
```bash
sudo sh -c 'echo "/nfsexport *(rw,no_root_squash)" >> /etc/exports'
```
```bash
sudo systemctl restart nfs-server
```

<b>On worker nodes:</b>

```bash
sudo apt install nfs-client -y
```
Check the status of NFS mount.
```bash
showmount -e control-plane
```


#### Demo: Configuring a Storage Provisioner

- Fetch the **helm** binary from **https://github.com/helm/helm/releases** and install it to **/usr/local/bin** (It means, copying it).
- Add the helm repo using **helm repo add nfs-subdir-external-provisioner https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/nfs-subdir-external-provisioner**
- Install the package using **helm install nfs-subdir-external-provisioner nfs-subdir-external-provisioner/nfs-subdir-external-provisioner --set nfs.server=control-plane.lab.com --set nfs.path=/nfs-subdir-external-provisioner**
- Use **kubectl get pods** to verify that the nfs-subdir-provisioner Pod is running.
- 
```bash
wget https://get.helm.sh/helm-v3.12.3-linux-amd64.tar.gz
```
```bash
tar -xzf helm-v3.12.3-linux-amd64.tar.gz
```
```bash
sudo cp linux-amd64/helm /usr/local/bin/
```

Test Helm:
```bash
helm version
```
```bash
helm repo add nfs-subdir-external-provisioner https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/nfs-subdir-external-provisioner/
```
```bash
helm repo list
```
```bash
helm install nfs-subdir-external-provisioner nfs-subdir-external-provisioner/nfs-subdir-external-provisioner --set nfs.server=<ControlNodeIP> --set nfs.path=/nfsexport
``` 
```bash
kubectl get pods
```


### Creating the PVC

- Type **kubectl get pv** to verify that currently no PVs are available.
- Use **kubectl apply -f 00-NFS-StorageClass** to create a PVC.
- Use **kubectl get pvc,pv** to verify the PVC is created and bound to an automatically created PV.
- Create any Pod that mounts the PVC storage, and verify data end up in the NFS share.

Check that no PVs are available:
```bash
kubectl get pv
```

```bash
kubectl get storageclass
```
Create the PVC:
```bash
kubectl apply -f 00-NFS-StorageClass.yaml
```

Check the status:
```bash
kubectl get pvc,pv
```