## Backing up Etcd

Etcd is a core Kubernetes service that contains all the resources that have been created. It's a vital K8s database. It is started by the kubelet as a Stactic Pod in the Control Node. Losing thil means losing everything. To back it up, root access is required.


### Installation

```bash
sudo apt install etcd-client
```
&nbsp;

That should be sufficient.
&nbsp;
Give it a try:
```bash
sudo etcdctl --help
```
&nbsp;

Get the values of the following:

- CA certificate: A trusted entity that issues digital certificates.
- Certficate: A digital document that binds a public key to an entity (like a user, server, or device).
- Key: The private key associated with the certificate.


```bash
ps aux | grep etc
```
&nbsp;

Following commands can be used to filter out the parameter values for the next command. Use it separately.
```bash
ps aux | grep etc | grep etcd-cafile --> cacert
ps aux | grep etc | grep cert-file --> cert
ps aux | grep etc | grep key-file --> key
```
&nbsp;
 
The following is just a dummy command to make sure that the keys can be retrieved:

```bash
sudo ETCDCTL_API=3 etcdctl --endpoints=localhost:2379 \
--cacert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt \
--cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt \
--key /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.key get / --prefix --keys-only
```
&nbsp;

Therefore, we are ready to perform the backup:
```bash
sudo ETCDCTL_API=3 etcdctl --endpoints=localhost:2379 \
--cacert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt \
--cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt \
--key /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.key snapshot save /tmp/etcdbackup.db
```
&nbsp;


Check the status of the backup file:
```bash
sudo ETCDCTL_API=3 etcdctl --write-out=table snapshot status /tmp/etcdbackup.db
```
- Command parameters brief explanation:
  - --write-out=table: This flag controls the output format of the command. --write-out=table specifies that the output should be displayed in a human-readable table format.
  - snapshot status: This is the subcommand used to check the status of an ongoing snapshot operation. It's used to monitor the progress or to determine if the snapshot creation has completed successfully.





