## 9.3 Network Policies

Let's start with [NetworkPolicies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/) to manage network traffic between Pods. So by default, there are no restrictions to network traffic in Kubernetes. And Pods can always communicate directly to one another, even if they are in other Namespaces. Should you need to set this in a different way, consider using NetworkPolicies. Consider that NetworkPolicies, need to be supported by the network plugin. 

As a concept, if in a policy there is no match, traffic will be denied. And if no NetworkPolicy is used, all traffic is allowed.

- The entities that a Pod can communicate with are identified through a combination of the following three identifiers:

  - Other pods that are allowed (exception: a pod cannot block access to itself)
  - Namespaces that are allowed
  - IP blocks (exception: traffic to and from the node where a Pod is running is always allowed, regardless of the IP address of the Pod or the node).
  
  
When defining a Pod or Namespace-based NetworkPolicy, a selector label is used to specify what traffic is allowed to and from the Pods that match the selector. And NetworkPolicies, if multiple applied, they do not conflict, they are additive. Let's start with the demo.

## Demo


In this demo two pods and a NetworkPolicy (NP) will be created.

Let's start revising the NP yaml file.
- We have a podSelector and this podSelector is a matchLabel and the matchLabel is app:nginx. So this NetworkPolicy is going to apply to Pods that have the label sets to app is nginx. Then we have the traffic definition.
- And the traffic definition allows ingress from podSelector, matchLabel, access:true. Then we have a Pod, and in this Pod, that's an Nginx Pod, we have the label app:nginx. So this is the Pods to which the NetworkPolicy is going to apply
- and this is going to run an Nginx application. The second Pod is running busybox and the second Pod has the label app:sleepy. Notice that the second Pod does not have the label that is requested in a NetworkPolicy access:true. So, if try to understand what is going on
- when the second Pod wants to access the Nginx Pod access should be denied. Let's verify if that's true. So we first need to implement a NetworkPolicy, kubectl apply, minus F nwpolicy


```YAML
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: access-nginx
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx
  ingress:
  - from:
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          access: "true"
```
- NP Name is "access-nginx"
- It will apply to all Pods matching the label "nginx". Only these pods are affected by this policy.
- Ingress Rules (Incoming Traffic): Allows traffic only from Pods with the label access=true. If a Pod does not have access=true, it cannot reach nginx pods.



Moving forward, let's deploy a Pod with label "nginx" to be scoped by the NP.
```YAML
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
  labels: 
    app: nginx
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nwp-nginx
    image: nginx:1.17
```

&nbsp;

After that, let's create a BusyBox, and try to connect to the Nginx Pod:

```YAML
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: busybox
  labels:
    app: sleepy
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nwp-busybox
    image: busybox
    command:
    - sleep
    - "7200"
```

&nbsp;


At this point in the course, you are should be familiar with this procedure, so I'll summarize it.

```bash
kubectl apply -f net-pol.yaml
networkpolicy.networking.k8s.io/access-nginx created

kubectl get networkpolicies
NAME           POD-SELECTOR   AGE
access-nginx   app=nginx      88s

kubectl apply -f nginx-pod.yaml
pod/nginx created

kubectl expose pod nginx --port=80
service/nginx exposed

kubectl apply -f busybox-pod.yaml
pod/busybox created
```

&nbsp;

Once this is set, let's analyze its behaviour:

```bash
kubectl exec -it busybox -- wget --spider --timeout=1 nginx
wget: bad address 'nginx'
command terminated with exit code 1
```
**Note:* --spider: This option tells wget to act like a web spider or crawler. Instead of actually downloading the content, it only checks if the requested URL exists and is accessible

As expected, the NetworkPolicy, blocked the incoming traffic from the BusyBox since it hadn't the proper label set.

Therefore, let's label the Pod and retry:
```bash
kubectl label pod busybox access=true
pod/busybox labeled

kubectl exec -it busybox -- wget --spider --timeout=1 nginx
Connecting to nginx (10.109.99.37:80)
remote file exists
```

&nbsp;

To sum up, let's check the NetworkPolicy itself:

```bash
kubectl describe networkpolicy access-nginx

Name:         access-nginx
Namespace:    default
Created on:   2025-02-15 13:32:19 -0300 -03
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
Spec:
  PodSelector:     app=nginx
  Allowing ingress traffic:
    To Port: <any> (traffic allowed to all ports)
    From:
      PodSelector: access=true
  Not affecting egress traffic
  Policy Types: Ingress
```

This states the following:
- Applies for Pod matching selector "app=nginx"
- Allows incoming traffic from Pods whose selector "access=true"
- Allows all egressing traffic
- No port restrictions.

---------------------------------------

&nbsp;

Perfect! Now we understand the working of NetworkPolicies.